---
title: "Clean developer install - Winget"
published: true
categories:
  - Lifehack
tags:
  - Developer
  - Workstation
  - Clean install
twitter_image: /assets/images/2022/02/winget-import.png
---

A clean windows installation just feels faster, and as a developer I want a **fast** machine! Why don't you just reinstall your machine once a month, you ask? Because it takes a lot of time to set it up just right.

<!--more-->

## Scripting the reinstall

I wouldn't be a developer if I didn't like scripts, so why not script the reinstalling of my machine. Great idea, that's exactly what I did.

- Part 1: [Winget import/export](/2022/02/18/winget/) (this post)

## Winget

[Winget](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli) is a Windows command line package manager. It works great to install a lot of software.

Find `spotify` on winget: `winget search spotify`. Install spotify: `winget install Spotify.Spotify`, and **boom** Spotify is installed. No need to `next`, `next`, `next` click through a setup.

### Winget export

You can also export all currently installed packages (that are available in winget).

Run:
`winget export [filename]`

You will end up with a json file similar to [this one](https://github.com/svrooij/dotnet-windows/blob/main/components/03-winget-packages.json).

### Winget import

Now you got that file exported from your old install (and saved it somewhere save), let's reinstall all those programs in one go.

Run:
`winget import -i [filename]`

If you're like me, and got a huge amount of packages in your winget file, this is a great moment to get yourself some coffee or go for lunch. Winget will automatically download and install all the packages specified. In my case it will be downloading **Visual studio 2022 professional**, **Office**, **Teams** and **VSCode**, among others.
